# Temperature-Sensor-Failure-Detection-And-Diagnosis-Based-On-ARIMA-Model
Predicted the future values of temperature of the temperature sensors and predict which type of fault has happened in the sensor. To Predict the values, I have used the ARIMA model.


Common terms to start with this project are as follows: 

1. What is Time series?
- Time series is a set of observations on the values that a variable takes at different times. eg. Sales trends, stock market prices, and weather forecasts.
2. Trend: The data values which increase or decrease.
3. Seasonality: The data changes according to the season.
4. White Noise: The data which is totally random in nature.


* We can do time series forecasting only on trend data and seasonal & not on sine data and complete random data.

AR Model: In this model the next value is predicted using the previous value multiplied by some values and adding the constant term to it.
MA Model: In this model, the next value is predicted using the error that is generated by two consecutive terms.
ARMA Model: This model is simply the combination of the above two models.

ARIMA(Autoregressive Integrated Moving average model: This is the model on which we are mainly focussing on 
In this model, there are three parameters.
1. P values: P value is how many previous values you are using to predict future values. for eg., if 9 am temperature data is predicted using the 8 am data then you are using only one hour gap so here p value become 1. 

2. D value  : D is how many times you are using the differencing method to make your data stationary. here differencing means shifting the values by 1-1 and then taking the difference between the values that are in columns and then the new series will form that difference series and that will make our data stationary.

Autocorrelation: It is a similarity between the observations as a function of the time lag between them. Autocorrelation tells us that where the data is stationary or not.

AIC (Akaike information criterion): These AIC values are used to choose the right p, I, and d values for us.
